So because we're using so
much memory when we're caching,
we need to be careful about how
a memoized function is going to be used.
And we need to think about what
types of inputs are gonna come in.
For example, if you had a function that
was taking in the XY coordinates of
somebody's mouse cursor as they moved
it around, think about how many
unique different types of inputs
are gonna be coming into that.
That's gonna create a lot of cache.
And think about how relatively
low percentage there is of reuse.
Meaning, yeah, we're creating
all these cache entries, but
it's very unlikely that we're hitting
hardly any of these cache entries.
In other words, most of the inputs
are unique and novel and
the first time that
the functions ever seen them.
So the profile that you wanna look for
is a function that it's a rather small
constrained set of inputs that you
expect to come in, and you expect for
those inputs to be repeated a lot.
That's when memoization is
actually a really good technique.
But I often hear people say, well,
if memoization is so magical and awesome,
why didn't JavaScript just memoize
every function by default?
And the reason why is because we don't
wanna just have runaway memory and
terrible performance in a different way.
So in those places where it's helpful,
this is a great tool to pull out of your
tool belt, but be careful to analyze
which types of functions you're
using a technique like that on.
All right, so
that is our option three solution.
Now, we're going to switch gears for
our fourth and
final solution to the night styler.
And I'm going to forewarn you that as
we dive into the next several slides,
it is going to be a fair bit more
complicated to wrap your brains around.
So just preparing you right now,
if you need to refill the coffee cup,
make sure you're ready to dive into this.
It is, I think, one of the most
mind-bending aspects in all of DSA.
If you've been able to follow along
at least partially with recursion,
it's gonna take that to a whole another
level in a somewhat ironic sense by
not doing any recursion at all.
We're gonna be able to calculate all the
same things that we were just calculating,
the count and all of that, but
we're not gonna use any recursion at all.
And it's going to run significantly faster
than the memoized version of recursion.
And it's not gonna use any memory.
So it's like the unicorn solution
that's both less memory usage and
significantly faster.
And you're wondering,
what is this sorcery?
How are we going to do it?
This technique is referred to, in
the general terms, as dynamic programming.
The good news is you've actually already
learned one form of dynamic programming,
which is top-down dynamic programming,
otherwise known as memoization.
But there's another form of dynamic
programming, which is what usually people
mean when they use this phrase, and
it's called bottom-up dynamic programming.
So we're gonna go in reverse.
In essence, that's the idea that you
should have in your mind from now.
And there's another term for that, this
is referred to generally as tabulation.
Tabulation should imply to you that most
of the time when you're going to employ
this technique, it's when you are counting
things, when you are tabulating things.
So it might not be as useful
of a technique, for example,
to calculate the acyclic paths
where we weren't counting anything,
we were just enumerating all
the possible different paths.
You probably wouldn't necessarily want
to apply this technique in that case.
Tabulation is something that should evoke
that idea that I wanna count things,
I wanna find out how
many things are doing.
Another example might be if you were
trying to come up with a bottom-up
tabulation.
Remember one of the warm-up problems I
posed to you was calculating the size
of the largest island.
Well, that is counting because we're
counting the units of the size.
As a side note, I don't think
that that problem can actually
be done with tabulation because
there's another characteristic here,
which is that you have to be
able to define an ordering for
the tabulation to occur for
this technique to work.
And I know that may not make much sense,
but you have to be able to go in
a deterministic order through your data
to be able to get a tabulation solution.
And with the island's size problem, if you
start from the top left of your grid and
you work yourself downward and
rightward through your grid,
that might seem like a deterministic
order to go through that.
But unfortunately, you would miss parts
of the island that might have curved back
around and you hadn't seen yet.
So you would have to go in
multiple directions, and
you can't really go in multiple
directions at the same time, or
at least I haven't been able
to figure out how to do so.
So I'm not convinced that all problems
that are counting can be done that way,
but there are some that can,
and this is one of them.
So we're gonna learn this technique.
So this slide I originally
used as a way to help folks
get some sort of mental
picture of what's going on.
It's somewhat misleading,
but it's metaphoric.
So I want you to not try to take too
much or infer too much from this.
If we look at the tree and we think
about a tree in a physical sense as
having leaves, and if we went up
to the tree, and we just shook it.
And I'm talking about like in the fall
time when leaves are about to fall, and
we just shook the tree, and
all of the leaves on the end of
the branches just started falling down.
And if we had laid out ten
buckets underneath this tree,
conceptually or metaphorically,
we can think of all of those leaves
as falling into one of those buckets.
Now, here's why this is not actually
an accurate way of thinking about
tabulation because you don't need just one
tree, you actually need all ten trees.
So if all ten trees were
in the exact same spot and
we shook all of them at the same time,
and all of their leaves fell into
one of these ten buckets,
we could then go through the bucket for
bucket 4 and count how many
leaves landed in the bucket 4.
And it turns out there would be
exactly 168 leaves in that bucket,
which is the number
that we're looking for.
Remember in our running example,
the (4, 6), the answer is 168.
If we took all ten trees and we shook all
their leaves off, and they could fall in
only one of these ten buckets,
it turns out that, not accidentally quite
on purpose, there would be exactly
168 leaves in the bucket number 4.
So let's set the metaphor aside cuz it's
a little bit strange, a little bit hard to
imagine shaking a tree like that,
and let's try to think about it.
Let's try to infer what we mean by
this top-down versus bottom-up.
Top-down, which is what we've done before,
is starting from the top of the problem,
that is the statement of the problem,
which in this case is (4, 6).
And we are working from (4,
6) down to (3, 5) and down to (4, 4).
We're working down the tree, if you will,
from the top of the tree
down to the leaves.
So you could think about bottom-up as
what if we knew where all the leaves
were without having constructed the tree
and worked in the opposite direction?
What if we didn't need to
recurse through the tree?
What if we could just infer or understand
exactly where all the leaves possibly
were and then just count all of them?
Run through our way up and keep track
of how many leaves we see as we go up,
and then we would have our
final answer at the end.
What's interesting about this
is that that process actually
is completely independent of
the starting digit that we end up at.
In other words,
we basically do the count for
all possible digits all at the same time.
And then at the end, we just say, okay,
the only one that I
actually care about was 4.
So I'm gonna do the count for
all 10 of the digits.
5, of course, is always gonna be 0,
but I'm gonna do the count for
all 10 of the digits.
And then at the end,
simply select which bucket I wanna count,
which bucket I wanna look at.
So let's try to develop some intuition for
that.
If we started at 4 and we were doing the
top-down approach, we would branch out.
Remember that's how we did it,
we would say, I could go from 4 to 3.
That arrow is a little off, but
I could go 4 to 9 and 4 to 0.
I could branch my way outward, right?
Well, what if we could go
in the reverse direction?
What if we could ask if I wanted to
determine all of the possible paths?
We've been thinking about these
paths as directed arrows.
But if you think about this logically,
it doesn't matter which
direction you went in the path.
You could start at the end of any one of
those paths and work your way backward and
get the exact same path.
So it's not actually a directed thing,
it's simply an undirected
traversal of a graph.
And by that, what that means is that
we could actually start from each
of the digits and ask, not,
where could I go from 4?
But get this, what if we asked
where could I go to get to 4?
If I got to 4, where could I have been?
I could have been at 3, I could have
been at 9, or I could have been at 0.
So we're actually asking
the reverse question,
which is the best way that I can help
you to understand this notion of moving
from the top-down model
to the bottom-up model.
We're asking the reverse question.
I'm not gonna start from 4 and go 6 hops.
I'm gonna say, from all of the various
places that I could have been,
how many paths would have ended at
digit 4 after having made 6 hops?
Because that number is exactly equal
to the other number, which is 168.
So we're actually solving
a different problem.
It's kind of like when we talked about
the whole bounding box thing, and
we said, do my two bounding boxes overlap,
has there been a collision?
And it turns out that it was much easier
to ask the question, do they not overlap?
This is very similar.
It's much easier to calculate and
to compute the other direction
than it is to recurse down.
It's still kinda mind-bending and
difficult, even for me and
I've been doing this for years.
It's still difficult, and
each time I come up with a new problem,
it's a little bit more difficult.
It's still difficult for me to try to
prove to myself that it either can or
cannot be done with tabulation.
This is one of those deeper areas
that takes a lot of practice.
So I'm not suggesting that you can just
master this at the first time you try it.
But I'm gonna walk you through how to
derive a solution to this problem.
And hopefully, some of those
principles will stick with you so
that you can try it on other problems.
So if we were asking what digits could
I have been at when I arrived at 4?
We then could ask what digits could
I have been at that I arrived at 3?
And then what digits could I
have arrived at 8 and so on?
So we're just gonna work our
way back up the tree, so
this is the bottom-up tabulation.